feat(language-layer): Add a command to check for country-agnostic and -specific files (#12188)
shopware/platform: changelog/_unreleased/2025-09-25-implement-lint-translation-files-command.md

---
title: Implement lint translation files command
issue: #12188
author: Marcel Brode
author_email: m.brode@shopware.com
author_github: @Marcel Brode
---
# Core
* Added a new CLI command `translation:lint-filenames` to validate filenames against agnostic naming conventions
* Changed command `snippets:validate` to `translation:validate` to scope all translation related commands under one namespace

> * Deprecated `snippets:validate` to be removed; Remains as an alias for `translation:validate` until removal

Reviewer: `# Upgrade Information` is missing for telling what should be used instead of the deprecated stuff. 

`# Next Major Version Changes` is missing to tell what was (will be) removed with 6.8 and what to use instead

Author: To be honest, I don't get when I do want to fill it in and when not and when to use Upgrade-6.x.md, since everyone tells me something different. Hopefully, that gets streamlined soon.

I'm not 100% sure what I should write. Please help me with that 🙂

---
title: Implement lint translation files command
issue: #12188
author: Marcel Brode
author_email: m.brode@shopware.com
author_github: @Marcel Brode
---
# Core
* Added a new CLI command `translation:lint-filenames` to validate filenames against agnostic naming conventions
* Changed command `snippets:validate` to `translation:validate` to scope all translation related commands under one namespace
* Deprecated `snippets:validate` to be removed; Remains as an alias for `translation:validate` until removal
* Deprecated `Shopware\Core\System\Snippet\SnippetValidator`, will be internal
___
# Upgrade Information
## Snippet Validation command

> * The command `snippets:validate` has been renamed to `translation:validate`. Please refrain from using the old command as it will be removed in future versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The command `snippets:validate` has been renamed to `translation:validate`. Please refrain from using the old command name as it will be removed in the next major version.

## SnippetValidator

The class `Shopware\Core\System\Snippet\SnippetValidator` will be marked as internal in the next major version as it is supposed to be used for internal purposes only.
```

___
# Next Major Version Changes
## SnippetValidator

> * The class `Shopware\Core\System\Snippet\SnippetValidator` is marked internal and supposed to be used for internal purposes only. Use on own risk as it may change without prior notice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Snippet Validation command

The command `snippets:validate` has been renamed to `translation:validate`.

## SnippetValidator

The class `Shopware\Core\System\Snippet\SnippetValidator` is now marked as internal and is supposed to be used for internal purposes only. Use on own risk as it may change without prior notice.
```

Author: thanks!
